PeRColate version 0.9b3Max 4 Releaseby Dan Trueman and R. Luke DuBoisBy using this software you are agreeing to the software license at the end of this document.This software is copyright ©2001 Dan Trueman / R. Luke DuBois / The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.  All rights reserved.System RequirementsThis is the Max 4 / MSP 2 release of PeRColate 0.9b3.  This release will not work with versions of Max prior to Max 4 / MSP 2.  There is a separate distribution available on the PeRColate web site (see below) for use with Max versions 3.5/3.6 and MSP 1.x.  The Nato objects in this release require versions of the N 4 ª ¨ library built on 1/27/01 or later.Installation instructionsCopy the PeRColate_objects folder into the externals folder of your Max distribution.Copy the PeRColate_help folder into the max-help folder of your Max distribution.You can copy the PeRColate overview file into the :patches:extras folder of your Max distribution.  It will then be available to you under the Max Extras menu.The PeRColate_source folder contains source code for the objects.  These objects were compiled using Metrowerks CodeWarrior 6 for the Macintosh, but should build easily with other compilers.The PeRColate web page, from which these objects may be downloaded, is located at:http://music.columbia.edu/PeRColatePlease e-mail any bug reports or suggestions to Dan Trueman (dan@music.columbia.edu) or R. Luke DuBois (luke@music.columbia.edu).  A number of bugs have been fixed since the last release, but please keep us posted on any problems you encounter.Enjoy!License License AgreementThe Software is provided by Dan Trueman, R. Luke DuBois and the Computer Music Center, Columbia University (hereinafter referred to as the "AUTHOR"), free of charge and may be distributed free of charge, provided that this documentation is included unchanged with the software. You may not sell the software, nor may you take a fee or commission for providing the software to another person, nor may you include the software with or as part of other software that is sold for a fee without prior written permission from the Author.  Source code for the software, if provided, can be re-used for educational or non-commercial purposes provided the Author is credited both in the product source and in the final product.  The source code for this software may not be re-used for commercial purposes without negotiating and obtaining a commercial licensing agreement from the Author.Disclaimer of Warranty on Software The software is provided "AS IS" and without warranty of any kind. The Author expressly disclaims all warranties, express or implied, including, but not limited to, the fitness for a particular purpose. The Author does not warrant that the software will be uninterrupted or error-free, or that defects in the software will be corrected. Furthermore, The Author does not warrant or make any representations regarding the use or the results of the use of the software in terms of their correctness, accuracy, reliability, or otherwise. No oral or written information or advice given by the Author shall create a warranty or in any way increase the scope of this warranty. Should the software prove defective, you (and not the author) assume the entire cost of all necessary servicing, repair or correction of the software, or the computer system with which it is used. Limitation of Liability Under no circumstances, including negligence, shall the Author be liable for any incidental, special, or consequential damages that result from the use or inability to use the software, even if the Author has been advised of the possibility of such damages.