Input Sprocket object for Cycling '74's MaxAdam Schabtachadam@cycling74.comThe insprock objects provide access to game controllers (joysticks, game pads, steering wheels, etc.) within Max using Apple's Input Sprocket operating system extensions. This enables Max users to use a wide variety of unusual hardware controllers as input devices for Max.Getting StartedFirst, obtain the latest version of Apple's Input Sprocket software, which is part of the Game Sprockets package. As of 8 January '01, you can download the Game Sprockets from here:http://asu.info.apple.com/swupdates.nsf/artnum/n11564Install the whole package, or just the Input Sprockets, and restart your system.To verify that your controller is recognized as a valid Input Sprocket device, run the IS Tester program. It's a simple program that just displays the standard calibration dialog for all attached Input Sprocket devices. Verify that your device shows up in the list of icons on the left. Click your device's icon. The various symbols in the diagram of your device should respond when you manipulate your input device.Next, put the insprock Max object file in the externals folder of your Max folder. Launch Max and open the insprock.help file, which explains how to use the insprock object.DistributionThe insprock object and its accompanying files may be freely distributed, as long as all files are distributed together. You may not resell the object itself, but you may integrate it into commercial products created with Max.Known ProblemsDo not attempt to use other programs which access Input Sprocket devices at the same time that Max is running and insprock is active. For example, don't try to use insprock at the same time that you're playing Quake.Input Sprocket devices are not "hot-swappable". If you attach a device to your computer, any applications that are running at the time will not be aware of this device unti you quit and restart those applications. Hence you should attach the devices to your Mac before launching Max.I have only tested these objects with MacOS 9.0. Apple says that the InputSprocket objects work on MacOS 8.1 and later, but I haven't tried it.insprock is PowerPC only; it won't run on a 68K-based Macintosh. Apple has stated that the Game Sprockets themselves will not always support 68K machines, and Max 4 is PPC-only, so I see little reason to create a 68K version of insprock.Revision History8 January 2001version 1.0First public release.