Thanks for downloading WJMX.v.1.2 - Tested FATThis patch has been used over and over to control Panasonic's flagship portable video mixer, the WJMX-30.  Quite common for remote live video setups, the "JMX" features 3 video inputs and 2 video outputs.  Users can crossfade, switch, and luminance key the three inputs in virtually any combination.  It also features a standard set of wipe transitions and effects, and our favorite feature, an RS-232 serial port. This patch has been used in some interesting situations, including "the CyberBass" - a modified bass with hardwired frets, a wacom tablet inserted in the strings and an ADB IO box.  The bass player uses the instrument + MAX to improvise live video switching and effects.Another situation was in the large installation "Tale of the Middleman (unnatural thirst) in which various interfaces throughout the space routed and switched multiple laser disks, live cameras and VCRs, (not to mention alot of audio manipulation, but that's another patch)An interesting feature of the program is that it's actually possible to do more things at once than is physically possible through the JMX front panel.  For example, simultaneous effects control on a three buses at once, (through the front panel only one bus can have effects at one time.The patch itself is pretty unpolished, but works well, and the setup is fairly simple.  An external coll file (wjmx.codes) contains all the serial messages themselves,  all of the patch interfaces eventually find their way to the coll, except for some "hardwired" effects, such as a simple A->B fade.If you like this patch let us know!WJMX was originially written By John J.A. Jannone (aka AJ), and later modifed by Johnny DeKamIt is being distributed for the first time via Unauthorized MAX.To use this patch you'll need a WJMX-30 (of course) and an RS-422 (mac) to RS-232 (standard serial) adapter cable.  The patch works great on PPC and 68k versions of MAX, and does not require alot of CPU overhead, (runs great on a PB 170!)http://node.net/MAX/Happy Hacking!