Lissa - A Lissajous Figure Generator©1993 Eric Singerels3339@is.nyu.eduWhen two periodic functions are used to generate the X and Y coordinates, respectively, on a graph, the resulting pattern is called a Lissajous figure (named after the French physicist, Jules A. Lissajous, 1822-1880).  The Lissa patch generates Lissajous figures based on two sine functions, and outputs them to a graph or as a stream of MIDI notes.Using LissaTo create a Lissajous pattern, set up the Lissajous Parameters using the sliders or number boxes.  Here is what each parameter means:- Metro rate:  Higher numbers yield a slower rate.  One set of X and Y values is output each time the metro bangs.  This is the actual time interval parameter, in milliseconds, of a metro object inside RunCounter.- Count length:  RunCounter will count from 0 up to the count length minus one.  Therefore, it will generate this many X/Y output pairs from LissaCalculator.- X rate:  This is how fast the X output will sweep as RunCounter counts.  Higher values cause X to sweep faster.- Y rate:  Same as X rate, but for Y.- Precision:  Higher values cause output points to be more closely spaced.  Experiment with this parameter to see what this means.  If it is set to a low value relative to X and Y rate, aliasing will result.  This is analogous to flashing  a slow strobe light on reflector on a spinning bicycle wheel.  The reflector will appear to jump around instead of moving in a circle.  Interest musical patterns can result.- X min, X max:  The X output will sweep between these values - useful for limiting note range.- Y min, Y max:  Same as X min and X max, but for Y.Set up MIDI parameters in the LissaMIDISetup box.  Select devices for each output using the OMS device pop-up menus.  Set velocity, duration, and MIDI channel using the sliders.  Duration is set as a percentage of metro speed.  For example, if the metro speed is 200, and the duration is 0.5, each note will be 100 milliseconds long.Set the Output Select boxes.  "Graph" sends the output to the Graph box.  "MIDI" sends out a MIDI note stream.  When "MIDI" is selected, Lissa will generate one or two notes at a time, based on the settings of the "Two pitches" and "Pitch & veloc" buttons.  If "Two pitches" is selected, Lissa will generate one pitch of MIDI note X and one pitch of MIDI note Y.  If "Pitch & veloc" is selected, Lissa will generate one pitch of MIDI note X, with velocity Y, overriding the velocity setting in the LissaMIDISetup box.To play or graph your pattern, click on the "play line" button.  RunCounter will run from 0 to count length minus one, LissaCalculator will compute values of the pattern, and values will be played by LissaNoteMaker, or graphed by LissaGraph.  You can save a pattern by shift-clicking on a button in the Presets box.  You can also create a score which will play pattern lines in succession.Using the Score WriterThe Score Writer creates scores consisting of a list of pattern lines.  Each line is a complete set of the nine Lissajous Parameters.  A score is played back by playing each line in succession.To start a new score, click the "clear score" button.  Create pattern lines by setting the Lissajous Parameters, and audition them using the "play line" button.  When you get a line that you like, click the "store line" button, and it will be written to the score.  When you have finished storing lines, click the "end score" button.  Then, the score can be played back using the "play score" button.  Line or score playback can be stopped using the "stop!" button.To save a score as a file, click the "write file" button.  To load a previously saved score, click the "read file" button.Scores can be opened as a text file for viewing or editing by double-clicking the "coll LissaScore" object.  The format for each score line consists of a line number, followed by a comma, followed by the nine Lissajous Parameter values in left to right order (separated by spaces).  The last line of the score must be the last line number, followed by a comma, followed by the number "-1".The Technical StuffThe X and Y coordinates are generated with a cosine function and a sine function, respectively, by the LissaCalculator object.  The expression for the X coordinate is	expr $f5*cos($f2*6.2831853*($f1/$f3))+$f4where	$f1 = the moving angle that sweeps out the function	$f2 = the rate at which X moves	$f3 = the number of divisions of a circle that the angle is divided into	$f4 = the offset of the coordinate axis	$f5 = the scale of the coordinate axisThe expression for the Y coordinate is the same, except that it uses a sine function.The function is generated or swept out by incrementing an integer, which is the angle parameter, $f1.  The angle is divided by the precision parameter, $f3, and multiplied by 6.2831853 (which is 2*PI), effectively converting the angle from radians to fractions of a circle.  Then, this value is scaled by $f2, the rate parameter.  The higher $f2, the faster the sine or cosine function will sweep.The cosine or sine of the resulting angle is taken, yielding a value in the range of [Ð1,1].  This value is scaled (multiplied) by $f5 and offset by (added to) $f4.  The parameters $f4 and $f5 are calculated from Xmin and Xmax (or Ymin and Ymax), so the resulting value will sweep between the min and max values.THE BEST WAY TO UNDERSTAND LISSA IS TO EXPERIMENT!