CDClipperCD Controller for MAX©1994 Eric L. Singer---------------Using CDClipper ---------------CDClipper is a compact disc controller for MAX.  It provides a front panel interface to control an audio CD in a Macintosh CD-ROM player.  It also allows you to create a list of CD clips for playback using a MIDI keyboard or any other method from within Max.The CDClipper panel contains three sections: CD Controls, Time and Message Display, and Clip Controls.The CD Controls section contains transport controls similar to those found on a component CD player, including Eject, Stop, Play, Pause, Skip Forward, Skip Backward, Scan Forward and Scan Backward.  When the disc is stopped, skip and scan functions will seek to a new location and stop when released.  When playing, they will seek and continue playing.  This section also contains a disc icon button which must be pressed after loading a new disc into the player (to initialize the CD table of contents), and a clock icon button for changing the mode of the time display (explained below).The Time and Message Display section displays track number, time in various modes and messages pertaining to the clip section.  Time display modes are Track Time, Track Time Left, Disc Time, Disc Time Left and Total Time.  Time is displayed as “Minutes:Seconds.Blocks” (there are 75 blocks per second).  The clock icon in the CD Controls section cycles through the modes.  Block display can be toggled on and off by clicking on the block number.  Messages will flash in the bottom of the display when playing and storing clips.  Clicking on a displayed message clears it.The Clip Controls section contains the functions for creating CD clips.  A clip is a section of audio from the disc delineated by a start and end time.  These times are specified in minutes, seconds and blocks of disc time.  Clip start and end times are set during playback by pressing the down arrow buttons in the Clip Start and Clip End sections, respectively.  When the time display mode is set to Disc Time, the clip times will reflect the timer.  The clip times can be trimmed using the left and right arrow buttons in each section.  The current clip as indicated by the clip times can be played back by pressing the Play button.The Store and Clip buttons are used to store clips to and play clips from the CDClipList.  To store the current clip, set the clip number in the box below the Store and Clip buttons, then press the Store button.  To play a previously stored clip, set the clip number and press the Clip button.  The start and end times will change to show the time values of the clip.Clips can be stored and played back from a MIDI keyboard.  The keyboard icon button toggles between Store and Clip mode.  In store mode, a received MIDI note will store the current clip at the MIDI note number.  In clip mode, a MIDI note will play the clip stored at the note number.If you attempt to store a clip at a clip number which already exists in the CDClipList, you will be prompted to overwrite the clip or cancel storing.The Read, Write and Clear buttons are used to load, save and clear the CDClipList.  Read brings up a standard dialog box for loading a previously stored clip list.  Write brings up a standard dialog box for saving the current clip list.  The list can be written either as a coll or text file.  Clear clears the CDClipList, prompting first with an “Are you sure?” message.The CDClipList can be examined and edited by double-clicking on the “coll CDClipList” object to open the coll window.  Each line is a clip in the following format:<clip #>, <start minutes> <start seconds> <start blocks> <end minutes> <end seconds> <end blocks>;CDClipper requires the "okcancel" object, included in the Time Tools and Others library.It is best to use CDClipper in non-overdrive mode.  Max may crash in overdrive mode when a MIDI note is used to overwrite an existing clip.------------CDClipPlayer------------Once you have created a clip list, you can use this simplified patch to play them back.  CDClipPlayer takes an argument which is the name of the clip list.  A number in the left inlet plays the clip number.