Karlheinz EsslReal Time Composition Library (© 1993-2000) vs. 3.3for MAXAbstractThis software library - a collection of patches for MAX (an interactive graphical programming environment for multimedia, music, and MIDI running on a Macintosh; © by IRCAM / Opcode Inc.) - offers the possibility to experiment with a number of compositional techniques, such as serial procedures, permutations and controlled randomness. Most of these objects are geared towards straightforward processing of data. By using these specialized objects together in a patch, programming becomes much more clear and easy. Many functions that are often useful in algorithmic composition are provided with this library - therefore the composer could concentrate rather on the composition than the programming aspects.The library consists of "abstractions" (MAX-patches that appear as objects) and external objects. Most of them were written by myself, but there are also contributions from other authors like Gerhard Eckel (GMD / St. Augustin), Serge Lemouton (IRCAM / Paris), Orm Finnendahl (HDK / Berlin), James McCartney (namely his generic list objects), and Peter Elsea's (UCSC) selected list objects from his Lobjects library. Other contributions came from Claus Philipp, Les Stuck, Timothy Place and Trond Lossius.Because the library objects are highly dependent on each other, it is recommended not to take them apart.The "Real Time Composition Library" (RTC-lib) was developed during my extensive work on Lexikon-Sonate (1992 ff.), an interactive realtime composition for computer- controlled MIDI-piano. Regardless the fact that it was conceived for a concrete project it became more and more obvious that its functionalities are open and generic enough to be used by other composers in different compositional contexts. Although - from the theoretical point of view - based on paradigms which have been extracted from serial thinking - and its further developments until nowadays it does not force towards a certain aesthetic, but provides a programming environment for testing and developing musical strategies. Please note that "serial" has here another connotation than it usually has (especially in the US): "serial" here refers to a certain way of musical thinking rather then dodecaphonic techniques, which have been abandoned by the serial theory itself (cf. Gottfried Michael Koenig and Karlheinz Stockhausen).The "Real Time Composition Library" runs under MAX 2.5.2, MAX 3.0 and MAX 3.5. It comes with a Hypertext-like on-line help which gives you a perfect overview on the library objects and their multiple relationships. In version 3.3, some new objects are added, some objects have been enhanced and some bugs have been fixed. For the first time, several MSP objects are included. New features of MAX 3.5 are also taken into account (seedable random generators, window appearance etc.) as well as the new Quicktime Musical Instruments of Quicktime 3.0. Please refer to the release notes for more information.All externals that come with the RTC-lib have been reimplemented into FAT code thanks to the efforts of Richard Dudas (IRCAM, Paris), Peter Elsea (University of California, Santa Cruz) and Serge Lemouton (IRCAM, Paris). So it will run on both 68k and - optimized! - on PowerPC Apple Macintosh ComputersFurther InformationMore information about the "Real Time Composition Library for MAX" (constantly updated) can be retrieved from the World-Wide Web:      http://www.essl.at/works/rtc.htmlPlease report any bugs, problems or question to:				Dr. Karlheinz Essl				Am …lberg 26-30				A-3400 Klosterneuburg				Austria / Europe				Email: essl@eunet.at				WWW:   http://www.essl.at				Tel:	  +43-2243-37971				Fax:   +43-2243-379714